
Elysium is proud to announce a new software and hardware solution for your
Commodore mass data storage needs.

The 2002-07-25 release covers only changes in GEOS driver.

The CIA-IDE is yet another approach to connect an IDE hard drive to C64/128.
It differs from previous similar projects in these areas:

- it is the simpliest one (only two chips required; just one in case of C128)
- it is free (documentation and software),
- the software is available in source code form under GNU GPL,
- there _exists_ a ready to use GEOS 2.0 driver.

The latest release of the GEOS driver includes following changes:

- partition size has been increased from 3840KB to almost 16MB
  (yet still there are 65536 partitions available - more GBs than your IDE disk
   will ever have :)

- BAM and sector handling routines have been optimized

- C64 with a RAM expansion is fully supported

- last but not least - there is IDE64 support. Note that it means IDE64-style
  IDE interface is supported, not IDE64 firmware. It is not compatible with
  IDE64 filesystem, but it should be possible to have two drives - one for
  GEOS, the other for IDE64 native filesystem. Currently you cannot share the
  disk between the two systems.

The driver still utilizes 8-bit interface hence only half of disk is used.
This will change, but don't hold your breath. It may take from 7 days to 7
months.

There is a configuration program and disk driver for GEOS 2.0. It can
handle any hard drive compatible with at least ATA-2 standard (no more than
128GB) in 16MB pieces (physically 32MB). Such virtual disks can be easily
changed with a Desk Accessory that is also available.
For GEOS64 you need a RAM expansion (IDE64 internal RAM suits that),
GEOS128 has no extra requirements.

I don't have Wheels so I don't know how my installation program will work
there. Any help, suggestions or sponsorship ;) are welcome.

Documentation, source codes and binaries made out of them are available on:

http://members.elysium.pl/ytm/html/ciaide.html

There is also GeoMakeDir on GEOS page there, an application for 1541/71 but it
should be especially useful for CIA-IDE/IDE64 users. It allows to create fake
subdirectories that can be switched using Desk Accessories.


Special thanks go to IDE64 creators for their kind generosity.


Maciej Witkowiak <ytm@elysium.pl>
YTM/Elysium
